Internet of Things for Smart Cities 

IEEE Style Citation A. Zanella, N. Bui, A. Castellani, L. Vangelista and M. Zorzi, "Internet of Things for Smart Cities," in IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 22-32, Feb. 2014, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2014.2306328. 
Keyword Urban areas, Smart buildings, Monitoring, Smart homes, Business, IEEE 802.15 Standards 
Original URL Link https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6740844 

Introduction 
As a recent communication paradigm, IoT grants connections between various devices to foster the 
growth of smart cities. On the flip side, however, this heterogeneous field is facing serious challenges 
about finding unified models to fulfill any possible application scenarios, which could cause 
incompetence regarding the process of proliferation and solving technical problems. To offer a solution 
for this complexity, this paper focus on the application of the IoT paradigm to an urban context, and 
specifically, adopting ICT approaches to achieve the concept of Smart City. The paper discusses a general 
reference framework for the design of an urban IoT. It lists obstacles with possible solutions and 
overviews services enabled in Smart City domain. Furthermore, it shows an urban IoT architecture design 
and presents a practical implementation at last.

Obstacles and Services in Smart City 
Smart City has a decent amount of market share, but it’s still in the early stage of market development 
for being hindered from the perspectives of political, technical, and financial barriers. From political 
view, attribution of discretion is a problem. Possible solutions could be institutionalizing the entire 
decision and execution process, converging strategic planning and management of the smart city into a 
single, dedicated department. As for technical aspect, troubles involve non-interoperability of the 
heterogeneous technologies in city and urban developments. Remediation relates to realizing a unified 
urban-scale ICT platform. In financial side, a clear business model is lacking under the influence of 
global economy. A potential way out of this obstacle is to first develop services with clear return on 
investment and then to catalyze other added-valve services. 
Services enabled by Smart City could potentially realize the win-win situation for citizens and the 
economy, including structural health of buildings, waste management, smart lighting, etc. Smart lighting, 
which is a service to optimize the efficiency of street lighting, is stressed in experimental study.

Urban IoT Architecture 
The authors think the services in Smart City are based on a centralized architecture, where the peripheral 
devices transfer data to a control center through suitable communication technologies. To describe this 
architecture in detail, they divide these components into 3 parts: web service approach, link layer 
technologies and devices. In the rest of the sections, IoT devices and technologies are usually 
distinguished as unconstrained, which refers to those regular components commonly used in 
communication, or constrained, which refers to those nodes with limited resources or technologies with 
low complexity. 
For the web service approach, 6 protocols are mentioned in 3 functional layers. In the layer of data format, 
EXI format is proposed since the size of XML messages is too large and complex for constrained devices. 
An entity of EXI is encoded from an XML message. It allows constrained devices to support and generate 
messages compatible with XML and its processor can be easily integrated in constrained devices. In the 
application and transport layers, HTTP is too verbose and complex, and TCP is not suitable for the 
environments of constrained devices. These problems can be solved by using CoAP protocol over UDP, 
which transports binary format and can easily interoperate with HTTP. In the network layer, 6LoWPAN, 
which is a compression format for IPv6 and UDP headers over constrained networks, is adopted for 
constrained nodes. To address a IPv6 host for IPv4-only hosts, the authors present 3 approaches: v4/v6 
Port Address Translation, v4/v6 Domain Name Conversion and URI mapping. 
Link layer technologies are classified into unconstrained and constrained technologies. The 
unconstrained technologies are all traditional communication technologies whose characteristics are high 
reliability, low latency, high transfer rate but also high complexity and energy consumption. The 
constrained technologies are those technologies characterized by low energy consumption and low 
transfer rates. 
In the part of devices, 3 types of devices are described. Backend servers are responsible for collecting, 
storing and processing data for useful information. Gateways interconnect the end devices to the main 
communication infrastructure, providing protocol translation and functional mapping. IoT peripheral 
nodes are the end devices producing data.

Padova Smart City 
The conceptual architecture proposed by this paper has successfully applied to the city of Padova, Italy. 
Both configuration details and observations after applying are given in this section. 
This practical application consists of a system for collecting environmental data and monitoring the 
public street lighting. It can be divided into six parts including both hardware and software. Street lights, 
which are geographically localized in the city, are utilized in this system. Each street light is attached 
with a unique IoT node. And each IoT node is further equipped with sensors of different functions, like 
temperature sensor, humidity sensor and benzene sensor. Then, constrained technologies like IEEE 
802.15.4 enable nodes to transfer data collected to a sink node. All nodes can be individually accessed 
from anywhere using the Internet through IPV6/6LoWPAN. In addition, WSN gateway provides an 
interface between backend servers and the sensor clouds. It also works as the sink node for sensors. 
Besides, HTTP-CoAP proxy in this urban example is collocated on the switchboard gateway. It enables 
communications with CoAP devices, which can be further described as to monitor applications and limit 
the amount of traffic in the IoT peripheral networks. Moreover, database server in this system is 
embedded in the WSN gateway. All data collected are stored in it in time and data inside it can be 
visualized or exported. At last, to optimize the maintenance plan, operator that able to locate the street 
light and tissue commands is embedded in mobile devices. 
A seven-day observation is visualized into plot with respects to the data collected in terms of temperature, 
humidity, light intensity and benzene level. And through these records, different patterns for different 
environmental factors are observed. Moreover, the combination of the sensed data at the same time can 
reflects the weather information. 

Conclusion 
From reading this paper, we go through the basic services that can be enabled in smart cities and get 
familiar with the obstacles in urban IoT domain from different dismensions. Besides, the proposed 
architecture gives us a comprehensive view of the urban IoT infrastructure from technical perspective. 
Then the experimental application in this paper verified the feasibility of its conceptual architecture. And 
from this practical application, we intuitively understand the interconnections among different 
components. 
